# iOS-portfolio

My name is Haley Parker and I am a senior student at Eden Prairie High School. I have taken AP Computer Science Principles, AP Java, iOS app development, and am currenty in advanced iOS app development. My goal throughout these classes has been to develop an understanding for different progrmaming languages, and I am continuing this learning in advanced iOS this year.

February 2022 - [Restaurant Lists](https://github.com/90306479/newRestaurants.git) is an app I worked on at the start of advanced iOS app development. I followed an apple developement tutorial to create the initial application and to act as a refresher for what I learned last year. From there, I used the basic app structure and reformed the app to focus on restaurants in my city rather than landmarks(the subject the tutorial focused on.) I learned about incorporating data from .json files, layering screens, working with mapview and coordinates, and manipulating objects. I also worked to add the functionality of reviewing the restaurnats on a scale from 1-5. After working with this app for over a week I chose to continue my learning with different apps, but if I were to continue on my restaurants app I would add more user functionality. I would like the user to be able to add new restaurants into the app of their choosing, as well add the ability to write reviews of the restaurants along with giving them a rating.

May 2021 - [Pocket Pantry](https://github.com/EPHS-iOS/GroceryTest.git) is the main iOS application I focused on during regular iOS development. I worked on this app with a classmate, but because of the covid situation at my school we were forced to collaborate strictly online. Much of my learning involved with creating this app was in learning how to effectively communicate digitally using online applications such as slack. This is also the first collaborative app I worked on so I learned how to push and pull code through GitHub. We began our development by outlining our app and deciding which features we considered to be the most important and therefore would work on implementing first. We decided our app would have 4 main screens, where the user would be able to keep inventory of their pantry, store recipes, create grocery lists, and set a meal planning calendar. When focusing on the application itself, I was occupied with creating the program code while my partner focused on the app's user interface and graphics. Developing this app was another huge learning experience for me. I learned how to implement tabview and calendarview in xcode, as well as how to utilize navigationview to switch between different screens. One of my favorite features of our Pocket Pantry app is the scanner, which allows users to transfer written recipes to online text and store the recipe in the app. At the end of the semester, my partner and I had the opportunity to [present](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nVmY10nGP_ObAj1-P91eLsXleMsBEFvc_LefuGG2nTY/edit?usp=sharing) our learning and finished app with the class, as well as share what we would like the change/improve within the app. In the future, I would like to add persistant data into the app, as well as perfect unfinished feautures like the meal planning calendar.

January 2021 - [Blackjack](https://github.com/90306479/blackjack.git) is the first iOS game I buit from scratch using xcode. I was inspiried by a video tutorial by code with Chris that I followed which created the card game "war." I created my blackjack game from scratch and started by familiarizing myself with coding the user interface in xcode. Once I created my app's basic user interface, I added funtionality to the program so the user was able to play against the computer. Once I had the basics of my app completed, I worked on adding other features to the app, including a money balance for the user and unique sound effects. Doing so helped me continue learning about a variety of xcode functionalities. If I were to continue improving my blackjack game today, I would allow the user to choose between being the player or dealer. I was also add a title screen, which would include how-to-play instructions.


